{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2577
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue10;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c99942\c98555\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18980\viewh12820\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 For clustering:\
\
ODATEDW                     Origin Date. Date of donor's first gift\
INCOME                      HOUSEHOLD INCOME\
NUMPROM                     Lifetime number of promotions received to date\
RAMNTALL                    Dollar amount of lifetime gifts to date\
NGIFTALL                    Number of lifetime gifts to date\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb1 \
Metric for interpretation:\
\
POP90C1                     Percent Population in Urbanized Area\
HVP3                        Percent Home Value >= $100,000\
HVP5                        Percent Home Value >= $50,000\
RP3                         Percent Renters Paying >= $300 per Month\
EC7                         Percent Adults 25+ w/ Bachelors Degree\
\
Categorical for interpretation:\
\
HOMEOWNR                    Home Owner Flag\
                            H = Home owner\
                            U = Unknown\
\
\
Marketing strategies:\
0: \
Younger individual. Has below-average household income. Has not donated much in the past and has not received many promotions either. The ratio of (promotions received / money donated) is lower than in cluster 1 and 3, meaning that the effect of the promotions is higher in this cluster.\
Lives in not so urbanised area that has below average home values and rents. Is not so likely to hold a Bachelor\'92s degree. A little bit more likely to be home owner than not.\
Strategy: Even though these individuals have little money, the effect of promotions is higher than in clusters 1 and 3. Increase the amount of promotions sent, but with caution!\
\
\
1:\
Characterisation:\
Older individual. Has above-average household income. Has received a lot of promotions and has also donated more than the average person, but the ratio (promotions received / money donated) is lower than in cluster 0 and 2, meaning that the effect per promotion is not as high in this cluster.\
Lives in rather urbanised area that has above average home values and rents. Is likely to hold a Bachelor\'92s degree. Is very likely to own a home.\
Strategy: Keep the about of promotions sent steady or even consider reducing amount of promotions sent, but with caution!\
\
2:\
Characterisation:\
Younger individual. Has above-average household income. Has not donated much in the past, but has received very little promotions as well!. Ratio of (promotions received / money donated) is the lowest in this cluster. \
Lives in rather urbanised area that has above average home values and rents. Is likely to hold a Bachelor\'92s degree. Is very likely to own a home.\
Strategy: Send more promotions!\
\
3:\
Characterisation:\
Older individual. Even though has below-average household income, seems donates significantly more than average.\
Lives in not so urbanised areas that have below average home values and rents. Less likely to hold a bachelors\'92s degree. A little bit more likely to be home owner than not.\
Strategy: \
Keep sending the same volume of promotions. They are likely to be rewarded with donations.\
}